In perpetual inventory, system creates accounting entries for each stock
transactions, so that stock and account balance will always remain same. The
account balance will be posted against their respective account heads for each
Warehouse. On saving of a Warehouse, the system will automatically create an
account head with the same name as warehouse. As account balance is maintained
for each Warehouse, you should create Warehouses, based on the type of items
(Current / Fixed Assets) it stores.

At the time of items received in a particular warehouse, the balance of asset
account (linked to that warehouse) will be increased. Similarly when you
deliver some items from that warehouse, an expense will be booked and the
asset account will be reduced, based on the valuation amount of those items.

## **Activation**

  1. Setup the following default accounts for each Company 

    * Stock Received But Not Billed
    * Stock Adjustment Account
    * Expenses Included In Valuation
    * Cost Center
  2. In perpetual inventory, the system will maintain seperate account balance for each warehouse under separate account head. To create that account head, enter "Create Account Under" in Warehouse master.

  3. Activate Perpetual Inventory

> Setup > Accounts Settings > Make Accounting Entry For Every Stock Movement

* * *

## **Example**

Consider following Chart of Accounts and Warehouse setup for your company:

#### Chart of Accounts

  * Assets (Dr) 
    * Current Assets
    * Accounts Receivable 
      * Jane Doe
    * Stock Assets 
      * Stores
      * Finished Goods
      * Work In Progress
    * Tax Assets 
      * VAT
    * Fixed Assets
    * Fixed Asset Warehouse
  * Liabilities (Cr) 
    * Current Liabilities
    * Accounts Payable 
      * East Wind Inc.
    * Stock Liabilities 
      * Stock Received But Not Billed
    * Tax Liabilities 
      * Service Tax
  * Income (Cr) 
    * Direct Income
    * Sales Account
  * Expenses (Dr) 
    * Direct Expenses
    * Stock Expenses 
      * Cost of Goods Sold
      * Expenses Included In Valuation
      * Stock Adjustment
      * Shipping Charges
      * Customs Duty

#### Warehouse - Account Configuration

  * Stores
  * Work In Progress
  * Finished Goods
  * Fixed Asset Warehouse

### **Purchase Receipt**

Suppose you have purchased _10 nos_ of item "RM0001" at _$200_ and _5 nos_ of
item "Desktop" at **$100** from supplier "East Wind Inc". Following are the
details of Purchase Receipt:

**Supplier:** East Wind Inc.

**Items:**

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Item</th>
            <th>Warehouse</th>
            <th>Qty</th>
            <th>Rate</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
            <th>Valuation Amount</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>RM0001</td>
            <td>Stores</td>
            <td>10</td>
            <td>200</td>
            <td>2000</td>
            <td>2200</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Desktop</td>
            <td>Fixed Asset Warehouse</td>
            <td>5</td>
            <td>100</td>
            <td>500</td>
            <td>550</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p><strong>Taxes:</strong>
</p>
<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Account</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
            <th>Category</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Shipping Charges</td>
            <td>100</td>
            <td>Total and Valuation</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>VAT</td>
            <td>120</td>
            <td>Total</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Customs Duty</td>
            <td>150</td>
            <td>Valuation</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p><strong>Stock Ledger</strong>
</p>

![pr<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-2.png)

**General Ledger**

![pr<em>general</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-3.png)

As stock balance increases through Purchase Receipt, "Store" and "Fixed Asset
Warehouse" accounts are debited and a temporary account "Stock Receipt But Not
Billed" account is credited, to maintain double entry accounting system. At the same time, negative expense is booked in account "Expense included in Valuation" for the amount added for valuation purpose, to avoid double expense booking.

* * *

### **Purchase Invoice**

On receiving Bill from supplier, for the above Purchase Receipt, you will make
Purchase Invoice for the same. The general ledger entries are as follows:

**General Ledger**

![pi<em>general</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-4.png)

Here "Stock Received But Not Billed" account is debited and nullified the
effect of Purchase Receipt.

* * *

### **Delivery Note**

Lets say, you have an order from "Jane Doe" to deliver 5 nos of item "RM0001"
at $300. Following are the details of Delivery Note:

**Customer:** Jane Doe

**Items:**
<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Item</th>
            <th>Warehouse</th>
            <th>Qty</th>
            <th>Rate</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>RM0001</td>
            <td>Stores</td>
            <td>5</td>
            <td>300</td>
            <td>1500</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p><strong>Taxes:</strong>
</p>
<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Account</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Service Tax</td>
            <td>150</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>VAT</td>
            <td>100</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

**Stock Ledger**

![dn<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-5.png)

**General Ledger**

![dn<em>general</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-6.png)

As item is delivered from "Stores" warehouse, "Stores" account is credited and
equal amount is debited to the expense account "Cost of Goods Sold". The
debit/credit amount is equal to the total valuation amount (buying cost) of
the selling items. And valuation amount is calculated based on your prefferred
valuation method (FIFO / Moving Average) or actual cost of serialized items.

    
    
        
    In this example, we have considered valuation method as FIFO. 
    Valuation Rate  = Purchase Rate + Charges Included in Valuation 
                    = 200 + (250 * (2000 / 2500) / 10) 
                    = 220
    Total Valuation Amount  = 220 * 5 
                            = 1100
        
    

* * *

### **Sales Invoice with Update Stock**

Lets say, you did not make Delivery Note against the above order and instead
you have made Sales Invoice directly, with "Update Stock" options. The details
of the Sales Invoice are same as the above Delivery Note.

**Stock Ledger**

![si<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-7.png)

**General Ledger**

![si<em>general</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-8.png)

Here, apart from normal account entries for invoice, "Stores" and "Cost of
Goods Sold" accounts are also affected based on the valuation amount.

* * *

### **Stock Entry (Material Receipt)**

**Items:**

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Item</th>
            <th>Target Warehouse</th>
            <th>Qty</th>
            <th>Rate</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>RM0001</td>
            <td>Stores</td>
            <td>50</td>
            <td>220</td>
            <td>11000</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

**Stock Ledger**

![mr<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-9.png)

**General Ledger**

![mr<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-10.png)

* * *

### **Stock Entry (Material Issue)**

**Items:**

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Item</th>
            <th>Source Warehouse</th>
            <th>Qty</th>
            <th>Rate</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>RM0001</td>
            <td>Stores</td>
            <td>10</td>
            <td>220</td>
            <td>2200</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

**Stock Ledger**

![mi<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-11.png)

**General Ledger**

![mi<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-12.png)

* * *

### **Stock Entry (Material Transfer)**

**Items:**

<table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Item</th>
            <th>Source Warehouse</th>
            <th>Target Warehouse</th>
            <th>Qty</th>
            <th>Rate</th>
            <th>Amount</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>RM0001</td>
            <td>Stores</td>
            <td>Work In Progress</td>
            <td>10</td>
            <td>220</td>
            <td>2200</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

**Stock Ledger**

![mtn<em>stock</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-13.png)

**General Ledger**

![mtn<em>general</em>ledger]({{docs_base_url}}/assets/old_images/erpnext/accounting-for-stock-14.png)