Purchase Invoice is the exact opposite of your Sales Invoice. It is the bill
that your Supplier sends you for products or services delivered. Here you
accrue expenses to your Supplier. Making a Purchase Invoice is very similar to
making a Purchase Order.

To make a new Purchase Invoice, go to:

> Accounts > Documents > Purchase Invoice > New Purchase Invoice

or click on “Make Purchase Invoice” in Purchase Order or Purchase Receipt.

<img class="screenshot" alt="Purchase Invoice" src="{{docs_base_url}}/assets/img/accounts/purchase-invoice.png">

The concept of “Posting Date” is again same as Sales Invoice. “Bill No” and
“Bill Date” helps to track the bill number as set by your Supplier for
reference.

#### Accounting Impact

Like in Sales Invoice, you have to enter an Expense or an Asset account for
each row in your Items table. This helps to indicate if the Item is an Asset
or an Expense. You must also enter a Cost Center. These can also be set in the
Item master.

The Purchase Invoice will affect your accounts as follows:

Accounting entries (GL Entry) for a typical double entry “purchase”:

Debits:

  * Expense or Asset (net totals, excluding taxes)
  * Taxes (/assets if VAT-type or expense again).

Credits:

  * Supplier

To see entries in your Purchase Invoice after you “Submit”, click on “View
Ledger”.

* * *

#### Is purchase an “Expense” or an “Asset”?

If the Item is consumed immediately on purchase, or if it is a service, then
the purchase becomes an “Expense”. For example, a telephone bill or travel
bill is an “Expense” - it is already consumed.

For inventory Items, that have a value, these purchases are not yet “Expense”,
because they still have a value while they remain in your stock. They are
“Assets”. If they are raw-materials (used in a process), they will become
“Expense” the moment they are consumed in the process. If they are to be sold
to a Customer, they become “Expense” when you ship them to the Customer.

* * *

#### Deducting Taxes at Source

In many countries, the law may require you to deduct taxes, while paying your
suppliers. These taxes could be based on a standard rate. Under these type of
schemes, typically if a Supplier crosses a certain threshold of payment, and
if the type of product is taxable, you may have to deduct some tax (which you
pay back to your government, on your Supplier’s behalf).

To do this, you will have to make a new Tax Account under “Tax Liabilities” or
similar and credit this Account by the percent you are bound to deduct for
every transaction.

For more help, please contact your Accountant!

{next}
